Explainers for 2 standalone graphics, 2 standalone illos This explainer will go
with a graphic on data from Swipe Out Hunger, including: swipes collected, meal
vouchers produced, and pounds of produce gleaned

This explainer will go with a graphic on data from Swipe Out Hunger, including:
swipes collected, meal vouchers produced, and pounds of produce gleaned

Donna Heiklai, a fourth-year psychobiology student and Vice President of Swipe
Out Hunger, said the organization has shifted its focus since she joined during
her sophomore year.

At first, students were primarily concerned with collecting swipes and
converting them to vouchers, Heiklai said. Now, she said the club focuses
raising awareness of the opportunity to enroll in CalFresh and their partnership
with Food Forward.

CalFresh is an opportunity to receive federal grocery stipends for qualifying
students receiving financial aid.

Swipe Out Hunger and Food Forward began a partnership in 2016 and work together
every week to collect fresh produce from the Thursday farmers market in
Westwood, Heiklai said. Students collect the produce that vendors would
otherwise leave behind and distribute it to the CPO Food Closet, graduate
student apartments and other LA homeless shelters, and the vendors receive a tax
break for their contributions.

Heiklai said she realized how important resources like Swipe Out Hunger are to
UCLA students when she participated in a “move day” with Swipe Out Hunger during
her sophomore year. ‘Move days’ transport donated food from the dining halls to
the CPO Food Closet.

“There was a book (in CPO) that you could write things in, and one person wrote
that the food closet was saving their life,” Heiklai said. “That changed
everything for me.”

Swipe Out Hunger partnered with Mobile Clinic at UCLA to host Homelessness
Awareness Week during spring quarter of this year, Heiklai said. She added she
hopes to grow the organization’s involvement with CalFresh in the future.

Eddie Munguia, a third-year psychology student and co-president of Swipe Out
Hunger, said his family is originally from Mexico, but he grew up in a
predominantly low-income area in Oakland. He added he thinks the UCLA community
struggles with finding an effective way to communicate available resources to
students experiencing food insecurity.

“One I realized there was an anonymous aspect to hunger it impacted me,” Muguia
said. “It could be a TA, a student, your roommate.”

He added that in the future, he hopes Swipe Out Hunger will create closer ties
with Bruin Shelter, and he trying to bridge the gap between housing and food
insecurity and get resources directly to students using Bruin Shelter.

“You come to UCLA, which is a nice campus, and despite how nice that campus is
there are still very real issues going on,” Munguia said. “I wasn’t able to
understand that until I joined Swipe Out Hunger and saw the numbers and data.”

This explainer will be accompanied by an illo of Bruin Shelter

After launching in 2016, Bruin Shelter is expanding to accommodate an increasing
amount of students seeking its services.

Bruin Shelter, the first completely student run homeless shelter in the nation
provides housing to other students in need from UCLA and other local
universities.

Based on Harvard University’s shelter model, Bruin Shelter is a 501(c)3
designated non-profit organization, under the non-profit Students 4 Students.
UCLA students coordinate the program with Bruin Shelter founder, Louis Tse. Tse
received his doctoral degree in mechanical engineering from UCLA in 2016 and
chose to be ‘rationally homeless’ as a student, living out of his car to
dedicate personal funds to starting the shelter.

Co-president Kate Lieb, a fifth-year psychology student, said she remembers her
first overnight shift in the shelter: after a hot dinner prepared by the student
volunteers, everyone gathered to talk and listen to a student play the piano in
the corner of the living space.

“I already worked nights… I didn’t mind staying up (late) and making sure people
had a place to stay,” Lieb said.

Bruin Shelter staff is broken down between volunteers, who stay from 7 to 11
p.m. each night, and supervisors, who spend the entire night at the shelter. On
any given night, Lieb said there will be two volunteers, and then two
supervisors that alternate between staying awake for the 7 p.m. to 2 a.m. shift,
and the 2 a.m. to 7 a.m. shift. Volunteers and supervisors receive training
based on Resident Assistant training on the Hill, Lieb added.

Last year, the shelter housed about 10 students at a time, and after the
expansion, the organization will be able to accomodate about 15 students at a
time. Bruin Shelter received more than 200 applications after its pilot year.
Bruin Shelter continued to house residents over summer 2017 until construction
began in September.

Applications and interviews are conducted to prioritize students in need of
immediate housing support.

Bruin Shelter is meant to be a temporary residence on a path to permanent
housing for residents, Lieb said.

Volunteers offer resources such as financial and mental health counseling and
connections to the Economic Crisis Response Team, which is operated under
Student Affairs at UCLA and provides different forms of emergency financial aid
to students in extreme need.

Lieb added that Bruin Shelter additionally partners with graduate students in
the School of Social Welfare, who act as case managers for each Bruin Shelter
resident, in addition to Swipe Out Hunger and other organizations that donate
food and other gifts-in-kind.

Lieb said the construction has been one obstacle this quarter because they are
not able to house residents before it is complete. She added Bruin Shelter is
seeking to strengthen communication between the Board of Directors and
volunteers to efficiently field questions from student volunteers about club
operations.

This will be accompanied by a graphic on the Economic Crisis Response Team

The Economic Crisis Response Team, launched in 2008 as a subset of the Office of
Student Affairs, is a program which assists students in immediate and dire
financial crisis.

There are four forms of aid students can receive through the ECRT: meal
vouchers, emergency housing, one-time grants or emergency short-term loans.

Students who qualify for the meal voucher program can receive up to 11 vouchers
per quarter for a maximum of three quarters, which are donated by the student
organization Swipe Out Hunger.

Emergency housing can be provided for up to 14-20 days in an open bed space in a
university owned property, which is funded by the Student Fund Advisory
Committee.

The Chancellor’s Grant is a one-time grant option, which can be granted in
amounts up to $4,000.

Short-term loans ranging from $1500-$1700 are offered at no interest, and are to
be repaid within one to three months.

The ECRT has incorporated a Financial Wellness Program as of 2012 which trains
10 students to act as financial wellness peers and facilitate financial planning
and management in conversation with students in crisis.

The ECRT will, in the future, explore possibilities of having ongoing meal plans
for student in financial crisis as opposed to single use meal vouchers.
Blandizzi added students have also critiqued paper meal vouchers because they
reported feeling stigmatized, and that they may consider going paperless in the
future.

This will be accompanied by an illo on the different themes regarding food
insecurity/literacy which were addressed

A study early this year found that 42% of UC students are food insecure. In
response, two graduate student researchers in the Luskin School of Public Health
facilitated a qualitative study which investigated the underlying themes of food
literacy and insecurity on the UCLA campus.

Hannah Malan, a research assistant in the UC Health Campus Initiative, and Tyler
Watson, a current PhD candidate in the UCLA Fielding School of Public Health,
organized the study beginning in 2016. They organized and conducted 11 focus
groups with diverse undergraduate and graduate students at UCLA to represent the
underlying themes of food insecurity at UCLA.

Malan said the most surprising finding from the study was the normalization of
unhealthy lifestyle choices among students.

“I was most surprised (by) how many students talked about food as a stressor in
their lives,” Malan said. “Students struggling with food... replicates these
broader cultural norms where we often just don’t have time or resources to take
care of ourselves when we’re living in these demanding, stressful environments.”

Some of the themes Malan and Watson identified in their research were lack of
awareness that undergraduates struggling with hunger were considered to be food
insecure, the cost of university attendance as a contributing reason to
students’ decisions to occasionally forgo meals and a lack of university
emphasis on teaching nutrition.

“I think how can we do more as institution of higher education (is) to give
students the tools they need, and communicate the values of the university to
community health and well being, which i think starts with food,” Malan said.

Malan and Watson are both members of the UC Global Food Initiative.
