Every morning during the summer of 2010, Seth Wing walked to Kerckhoff Hall from
his van, parked on Veteran Avenue,added commas with a cup of instant oatmeal in
his hand, ready to start the day.

The That summer, before he graduated with a degree in geography/environmental
studiesgeography and environmental studies; link 1 and a minor in
geospatialgeographic; link 2 information systems and technologieslowercased
major and minor names; decided to keep his minor bc it's sort of relevant to the
story, Wing lived out of his van during the school week.

“It’s an heirloom,” Wing saidjoked about his brown, two-toned 1989 Ford E150
Econolineok link 3 van that he inherited from his grandparents.

Wing said he decided to take summer courses for his major and conduct research
as a technician in a soil laboratory so he could have the option to graduate
early. During the school year, he lived in Culver City with roommates he found
on Craigslistchecked apstyle. However, when his lease ended, he knew he wouldn’t
be able to afford rent and pay for summer classes simultaneously.

“Not everyone can afford to live in Westwood, remove comma or even Culver City,”
he said. “They might have to take time to recoup their bank account like I had
to.”

So,added comma bc grammar Wing decided to live out of his van during the week
while attending class and working in the laboratory during the week; repetitive
and; ended sentence He used free amenities on campus to maintain his hygiene.

Before breakfast, Wing would walk to Kaufman Halldb style guide ok to brush his
teeth and use the pools and showers. With his towel, electronics and chargers,
he either made his way over to the lab or headed to class.

He added his peers in the lab knew he lived in the van, but the professor
overseeing his research did not.

“No one ever really questioned it,” he said. “They thought it was slightly
amusing.”

Wing said he was financially independent as a student and funded his own
education. He added his family knew of his decision to live in the van.

Adrienne Wing, Seth’s younger sister who was attending California State
University, FullertonCal State Fullerton at the time, said she was not totally
surprised to learn of her brother’s decision halfway through the summer.

“He’s a very frugal person in a lot of ways,” Adrienne Wing said. “Of all the
people I know in my whole life, he would be the one person that would do that.”

She added she thinks her brother’s affinity for outdoor activities likely made
him comfortable with the idea of living in his van.

As the founder of the Hiking Club at UCLAok link 4, Seth Wing was familiar with
difficult conditions, first hiking the John Muir Trailok link 5 for three weeks
in 2008in 2008 for three weeks, and later hiking the Appalachian Trailok link 6
over a period of five months in 2012.

“You learn a lot about your body and what you can take (while hiking because)
it’s very mental. I guess living in a van in some way is mental,comma added
too,” Seth ; removing first name for all subsequent references bc Adrienne is
never mentioned againWing said. “That’s probably why I’m so nonchalant about
it.”

However, added "however." this graf introduced a negative aspect after relative
chillness about living in vaneven though he lived off of gummy bears and a block
of cheese for the last hundred miles of his John Muir hike, Seth Wing said his
poor diet while living in the van affected his academic performance.

“You can start to feel lethargic because of what you’re eating, and (from) not
getting as much sleep,” Seth Wing said. “It definitely wears on you.”

On a few occasions, he went dumpster divingdumpster-diving; link 7 for food.
Other times, he would find fresh fruit growing on trees around campus.

He said it was difficult to do homework in his car, and he used WiFi from
graduate student housinggraduate student housing WiFi to complete assignments
because the signal reached to where he parked the van on Veteran AvenueAve.

“You’re uncomfortable, you’re too hot, cold, it’s loud,oxford comma (and) you
can only do so many hours in the library. You, you; ended sentence, lots of
commas :( don’t have a desk to sit at with your computer,” he said. “Everything
is very temporary.”

Wing said he saw many other students living on Veteran Avenueadded ave that
summer, remove but was most; don't really need "most" since he doesn't other
stuff he was surprised by surprised by how loud people walking through the
streets would be at night, often overhearing arguments and fights. He added he
feared his car may be broken into while he was sleeping.

That summer, Seth Wing dropped one of his classes and spent, spending much of
his free; mentioned in next sentence time in the lab, working with geographic
information systems., or GIS. During his free time, Wing said he mapped out the
best parking zones: flat, shaded and unrestricted.

Although he did not graduate early, Wing said he values the work he completed
that summer, which led him to his current position as an environmental
scientist.

“Living in the van is not the worst thing that can happen,” Wing said. “I had a
roof over my head, I wasn’t out on the street –- I had the van.”
